Copy data from an instance to another - first step (#1804)
akeneo/pim-docs: cloud_edition/flexibility_mode/docs/environments_access.rst

.. _`Akeneo Help Center`:  https://help.akeneo.com/portal/articles/access-akeneo-flexibility.html?utm_source=akeneo-docs&utm_campaign=flexibility_partner_starterkit

Transfer data from one instance to another

> **************************************

Author: ```suggestion
*************************************************
```

.. _`Akeneo Help Center`:  https://help.akeneo.com/portal/articles/access-akeneo-flexibility.html?utm_source=akeneo-docs&utm_campaign=flexibility_partner_starterkit

Transfer data from one instance to another

> *************************************************

Author: ```suggestion
******************************************
```

**Step one: Import MySQL data**
   
    First, create a MySQL dump of your data:

.. code-block:: bash

    #on mystaging.cloud.akeneo.com
    mysqldump -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim > /home/akeneo/pim/dump_dd_mm_yy.sql

You could compress it to be more efficient during the copying process.
Then, transfer your dump into the destination instance (cf previous paragraph)
Finally, in your destination instance, import your MySQL dump:
    
.. code-block:: bash

    #on myproduction.akeneo.com
    mysql -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim < /home/akeneo/pim/dump_dd_mm_yy.sql
    
**Step two: Localize assets storage**
    
    Find the asset Location using the following command:
    
.. code-block:: bash

    bin/console debug:config OneupFlysystemBundle
    
The result indicate the file path of all your assets
    
.. code-block:: bash

    asset_storage_adapter:
            local:
                location: /home/akeneo/pim/var/file_storage/asset
                
**Step three: Copy assets**
 
    Compress all folders according to the locations and copy them into your destination instance. 
    
**Step four: Reset and reindex ElasticSearch** 

>     - First reset the indexes.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Reset all the indexes from ElasticSearch
```

    
    .. code-block:: bash

        bin/console akeneo:elasticsearch:reset-indexes
        

>     - Reindex using following commands

Author: ```suggestion
    - Reindex all the indexes one by one
```

    On the SCP command, please note that no domain is specified.

    Use the short host name of instance. Connect to the target server and run `hostname` to get this value.
    
    
Copy process (MySQL data & pictures (including assets)) from one instance to another
************************************************************************************

**Scenario:**

    User wants to copy all the data (including assets & pictures) from staging instance to production instance :

> **Step one: Import MySQL data**

Reviewer: This feels like it should be two separate steps:
```
**Step one: Export MySQL data from source instance**
...
**Step two: Import MySQL data to destination instance**
```

   
    First, create a MySQL dump of your data:

.. code-block:: bash

    #on mystaging.cloud.akeneo.com

>     mysqldump -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim > /home/akeneo/pim/dump_dd_mm_yy.sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mysqldump -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim > /home/akeneo/pim/dump_`date -u +"%Y-%m-%dT%TZ"`.sql
```
That will interpolate the UTC date & time, so the file will have a name like `dump_2022-11-23T17:28:05Z.sql`

You could compress it to be more efficient during the copying process.
Then, transfer your dump into the destination instance (cf previous paragraph)
Finally, in your destination instance, import your MySQL dump:
    
.. code-block:: bash

    #on myproduction.akeneo.com

>     mysql -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim < /home/akeneo/pim/dump_dd_mm_yy.sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mysql -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim < /home/akeneo/pim/dump_`date -u +"%Y-%m-%dT%TZ"`.sql
```

Same as above

    On the SCP command, please note that no domain is specified.

    Use the short host name of instance. Connect to the target server and run `hostname` to get this value.
    
    
Copy process (MySQL data & pictures (including assets)) from one instance to another
************************************************************************************

**Scenario:**

    User wants to copy all the data (including assets & pictures) from staging instance to production instance :

> **Step one:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Step one: Import MySQL data**
```

   
    First, create a MySQL dump of your data:

.. code-block:: bash

    #on mystaging.cloud.akeneo.com
    mysqldump -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim > /home/akeneo/pim/dump_dd_mm_yy.sql

You could compress it to be more efficient during the copying process.
Then, transfer your dump into the destination instance (cf previous paragraph)
Finally, in your destination instance, import your MySQL dump:
    
.. code-block:: bash

    #on myproduction.akeneo.com
    mysql -u akeneo_pim -p$APP_DATABASE_PASSWORD akeneo_pim < /home/akeneo/pim/dump_dd_mm_yy.sql
    

> **Step two:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Step two: Import assets**
```

    
    Find the asset Location using the following command:
    
.. code-block:: bash

    bin/console debug:config OneupFlysystemBundle
    

> In the result you will see something like this

Author: ```suggestion
The result will show you the file path of all your assets
```

    
.. code-block:: bash

    asset_storage_adapter:
            local:
                location: /home/akeneo/pim/var/file_storage/asset
                

> **Step three:**

Author: ```suggestion
**Step three: Transfer assets**
```

>     Once the assets locations are identified you can compress all files in a zip and copy it to your destination instance.

Author: ```suggestion
    Compress all folders according to the locations and copy them into your destination instance. 
```

> **Step four:** 

Author: ```suggestion
**Step four: Reset and reindex ElasticSearch** 
```
